networked web game

various scenarios to start the board
partially procedurally generated,
use lists like those found in tabletop rpg books,
only with different kinds of items, such as paperclips
choose goal
research scenario-related details online during the game
for example, how are pens made
gamemaster could research beforehand as well as possibly some setup

source more scenarios from community
perhaps submit to github via enhancement requests
optionally sort scenarios based on popularity
keep track of scenarios played by a game token with at least 10 interactions

no matter what the scenario, there will be a list of the following entities:
    overview -- scenario description and win requirements
    items -- can be used; variety of types such as upgrades, sources
    locations -- e.g. first room to the north
    characters -- player or npc, with select box to specify "user 1" etc
    events -- e.g. axe breaks; random chance that can occur once per second during action
    attributes -- e.g. 100 max hp; also states such as poisoned or 20 hp left

action could be an event, or whatever was the most recent item interacted
with for a particular character, even if the action is finished
username and character in the same row doesn't necessarily mean that character
is a player character
all ongoing progress actions have a swirling icon next to the action name

    character   location    action  player
    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
    Suzy        Home        Ink     mycoolusername
    George      Woods       travel  2kul4wrds
                            Pens    userwithoutchar
    Peter       Woods       wolf

icons or other images would add quite a bit of color to the game
characters and items could have icons
locations may even have bigger images, perhaps drawn
what about adding a simple art screen,
with a pencil (adjustable width) and color selection
image sizes for each entity would be fixed, either icon size or image size
of course, that would require more memory, not as scalable
ascii art perhaps 

hosting possibilities:
Pythonanywhere should be able to host postgres and flask web app.
https://www.reddit.com/r/flask/comments/12beskr/free_hosting_sites_compatible_with_flask/
render.com is an alternative.

perhaps could offer some users on Pythonanywhere and also option to download
code for playing on a LAN
another option would be, in addition to LAN multiplayer from GitHub,
offer an online single-player version that doesn't require a database
socket.io (e.g. Flask-SocketIO) is another tech often mentioned for
synching between multiple players, like Scribbl.io

db.collection.create_index("expiry_time", expireAfterSeconds=<time_in_seconds>)
maybe for firebase, keep track of how long it's been since a clean has been done
once per day, clean up data for game tokens that haven't been played recently
keep data for 1 week?
maybe when on the game setup screen, check if cleaning needs to be done,
and if so, post a message when it's done, like saving to file
prompt each player to save to their PC once per day

perhaps the database is only needed for persistence
or maybe store the game with JSON rather than in a database
store client-side in browser with downloadable JSON?
would that work for multiplayer?

source of resources: obtained from activities in forest which can be
unlimited, regenerates periodically, or fixed limit.
if unlimited, it's equivalent to saying magically produced by an activity,
so we don't actually have a source
but a particular location or crafing station can be required
the action stops if requirement is no longer met
resources could be purchased
realistic would be to start with a debt and eventually break even and better
but can choose to make it easy and simply be given lots of money or resources to start
fixed limit could be used to give an endpoint to the game

sales can increase in complexity as well, adding stores and store management
NPCs can work at stores
items of a single name are unique
so if we want multiple stores, make "store 1", "store 2"
could also divide money into "store 1 money" and "general money"
    and they could require each other to allow transfers

stamina points
train stamina by swimming in pool
each player char has stats (attributes) that are chosen at the beginning of the game
select from a list or specify custom
strength, intelligence, dexterity, stamina (current/max), health (current/max)
perception, athletics
status conditions
states (effects / attributes) may change over time, such as poisoning
turn-based, not with a time delay

different players may be given different authority (rights, privileges),
for example, only managers can spend money to open new stores
an easy distinction would be that only the gamemaster can change setup
checkbox on overview screen to say I am the gamemaster (like an admin)
checkbox to prevent all others from making setup changes
can also set config permissions for a particular player on a particular entity
or play permissions -- might even be more helpful than setup permissions
anyone can make setup changes, but only certain people can do certain actions
users will need passwords so someone can't just say they're a different user
or how about a downloadable key file
maybe give each player the choice of auth method
a player could choose no auth if desired

events can pop up randomly while an action is in progress
sudden bad or good events may also happen
for example, outcome is critical failure, and if scenario is trees, lose lots of logs
trigger chance is in settings, can be 0 to turn off
for example, 1 out of 100 chance
before the event is shown, event params are shown which can either be
accepted or changed, and then roll for the event
no random event can occur when progress is paused

randomized progress
for example if str is 10 then hit on tree is from 8 to 10
chance of success for incrementing
optionally manual rather than auto increment, like manually attempting to chop a tree
can select a failure event from a dropdown list
event chance may depend on stats (attributes) of characters or items involved

radio in config specifies that the type is four-way outcome, on by default
radio2: outcome is a number -- specify min and max
    useful in combat such as for a d6 damage roll
    hopefully add more automation later such as calculating based on attributes
radio3: selected list -- can select a list of other entities to randomly choose from
    on the configure screen
radio4: entered list -- enter a list of strings of outcomes to randomly choose from
    on the configure screen
    for example, we might want to ask which of 5 doors to enter,
    or which of 5 names to choose

scenarios can be randomly generated except number of players must be specified
setting up the configuration one question at a time could be tedious
perhaps the questions could be all in a list
for quality of life, could have the ability to copy info from one entity to another
so an entity could be used like a template
maybe specify a list of which attrs to copy
call it templating or copying
each entity perhaps would have a template e.g. all characters in this scenario have int
or simply allow duplicating

keep track of how many produced (for xp) as well as how many in inventory
age could be similar to xp, increasing over time

win requirements
Item quantity optionally at a Location or held by Character
Character at required Location or with required Attribute
attrib could be Defeated >= 1
on config screen, button to set up item or char requirement
when pressed, display (unhide) relevant select boxes
select for example an Item, specify a quantity, and a Location,
then press Add Requirement
button to Remove requirement
can modify quantity or val of attrib?
table win_requirements
item_id, quantity, location_id, character_id, attrib_id, attrib_val

ability to replay a game

items may have different sets of materials
for example, wood could come from a log or from disassembling a shelf
or by purchasing
purchasing would be instant, while producing would take time
each recipe has a "gives" quantity, instant checkbox, and duration
these would need to be columns in a relation table
repeat the same values for all sources of a recipe,
to avoid the need for a separate recipe table

on item play page, have start/stop button or gain button for each recipe,
and show all source quantities for all recipes of that item

to cover more cases, we'd need to differentiate between materials and contained items.
for example, a wooden box requires planks and nails to build, but could contain clothes.
or perhaps only locations need to contain things, and a wooden box could be a location
    it may still be possible to build a location, perhaps by brute force with an event
    we could manufacture a wooded box item, then destroy it and create the unique location
characters (players and npcs) could also contain (i.e. wear or hold) items

entity classes might have superclasses for partially shared behavior
    players and npcs are both actors and can potentially gain xp from an action
    items and locations can both have a position, such as inside another one
    items and characters can be incremented over time

global stop button on overview screen, but no other ability to manufacture anything

likely too, no items are top-level, but rather locations,
perhaps a backpack or chest,
and clicking on it would show its contents.
a room could serve this purpose as well, containing npcs for example.

travel could optionally take a resource such as food for each distance step
the character object would have this food

attributes would be the main thing determining event chances,
and attributes could be members of characters, items, or top-level
or maybe not top-level, but special items could be added that could
hold such attributes, for example a calendar item with a season attribute
would they be useful for locations?
for example, how dark a room is,
or deep water would require swimming or limit evasion
perhaps it would be better to simply mention such things in location description

one attribute would be max hp
another would be current hp
a third would be poison duration remaining
then there would need to be a next turn in a fight where these are possibly changed
perhaps the turn would be an event
the event would calculate a random hp change based on attributes and items
current hp would be selected as an attribute to modify
items would have their own attrs list,
including e.g. hp change that would indicate how much of an
impact it would have in increasing or reducing hp change of the event

perhaps basic mechanics could be implemented automatically,
and more advanced mechanics would require manual changes to stats
armor could be dmg * 0.95, or chance to get hit * 0.95
attributes could be attached to events both to affect and be changed by
change and effect can both be automatic, by approval, or manual
attaching for manual control would be for convenient display only

hp attr could be current value along with max, like items have
however, attacks such as poison often do damage based on % of max hp
maybe events can be based on the current (default) or max -- a checkbox

base chances could be displayed in the form of 1 / 10000 ticks
or 3 / 5 chance to hit
also min and max result,
for example, 70% chance to do between 30 and 60 damage.

for example, an attribute could be the season
so an event based on the season would have a worse chance or lower average
distance if season is winter
winter would be explained in the attr description,
and the implementation would be an input box showing * 0.9

the attr obj would be damage reduction,
perhaps somehow specifying that values are meant to be multipliers,
(that could be explained in the description at least),
and a piece of armor would have value 0.9 as the multiplier
maybe multiplier would be one of several radio button options explaining what
kind of stat it is
an attr could possibly also reference another attr that is used to change it,
for example, hp change could be affected by damage reduction

in a fighting event,
all factors should be displayed to show how the outcome is arrived at
magic missile could be one event entity, and sword swing could be another
or one event could be used for any of a group of similar abilities

perhaps one event could contain references to other (sub-)events,
for example, an attack would be a chance of changing hp
as well as a chance at poisoning
if nothing else, could explain subevents in description

chances could be at a disadvantage (lowest of two rolls)
or advantage (highest of two roles) based on story context

during encounters, time is turn-based and rotational,
at other times, it is much freer

to travel from one location to another, selecting from a dropdown may
be a bit tedious
could have buttons instead to start travelling to a location
perhaps we could use those instead of a single start button
would still have a single stop button
only a single distance display as well
maybe display would include destination name: "Distance to Home: 3 of 10"
since button would simply show "Travelling."
other buttons would be greyed out if travelling.

instead of a loop, actions in progress can be
done with elapsed time that gets updated when queried
optionally they can be regularly queried, e.g. once every second

Progress class would need to remember how long it's been since the last batch
for example, if batches take 10 seconds, and we query at 15.2 seconds,
then do one batch and record that we're 5.2 seconds into the next batch
so then if queried 4.9 seconds later, it should do a second batch
no, count elapsed time from when the entire task was first started,
and keep track of how many batches we've registered so far
when next queried, calculate how many more to do

it would be helpful to see elapsed time since start was last pressed,
if the action is still in progress
that could be displayed smoothly on the client side
clock could update every second, and query for quantity every 2 seconds
even if progress ends up getting stopped a few seconds before
the time counter is stopped,
it should be manageable, as the result count would not change

for locations, have speed as well as distance
characters would have travel speed for a particular location?
for example, a swimming speed and a walking speed
speed for a particular type of terrain, and a location would have a type of terrain
or we could manually change the character's speed when entering a new location

a location could optionally have subdivisions
specify as having a grid of x by y
position of the character or item
would be an attribute of a many-to-many is_at_location relationship
show visually on play screen with ascii graphics
first letter of characters and items in their position
also display the coords of each entity at that location
the area would be a <pre> with a different background to
show empty space

no travel time progress between subdivisions,
but speed could make it so can move two at a time
compared to another character's one at a time
arrow buttons to change position

a single player could open two tabs
one to move character and another to see location change

a particular item with quantity in a place,
where there could be several stacks in different places
a many-to-many relationship with item and either location or character

randomly populate room with items to pick up
by selecting items from a list of all items on location config screen
for example 0 to 10 items
chance based on item rarity
or possibly any attrs, for example, some items more likely in fire caves
and others more likely in ice
maybe also randomly populate with monsters

location config screen would list all items and their positions and quantities
could remove one at a position, or all at location

not as interesting to see total time spent on this action across starts/stops
for now, let's eliminate it
race scenarios would need more than that anyway,
as each character would need their own time

limit actions in progress to 10 concurrent per session?
or two per user?
but there might be several long-term actions in progress,
such as an animal born once an hour
limit elapsed time to 24 hours at least
after that, though, it doesn't have to be stopped -- it's just not counted for more

will it be difficult if several elapsed-time actions depend on each other?
pen requires lid requires plastic, and each is incremented regularly
when querying an item, first recursively query
all of its sources that are in progress
avoid recursion loops by maintaining a set of items to query
the set would need to be a local variable passed as a parameter

offline events can occur?
multiple would get a bit crazy if they are not handled automatically,
like, multiple event screens to work through when logging back in
probably not what we want
could stop progress if an event occurs
or maybe no offline progress
the idea of farming for something for hours, hoping for a certain chance,
is exciting but can also feel like being tied up

event log to show outcomes
would be nice for e.g. digging holes competition
for example, "depth gained: 3.5" where event has chance from 1 to 5
wouldn't have to keep initiating the event for each step
or maybe that wouldn't be so bad, if only one button press
is required for a step
maybe we can view an event and another page at the same time
either a separate part of the page,
or in a different tab
or maybe the event can automatically update a value and show the
change as well as the updated value


---- scenarios ----

explore scenarios page
dropdown list selectable by their title
selecting one shows its description,
and the count of each type of entry -- "Starting Setup: "
if zero entities, display "This scenario comes with no entities,
so you would need to set up everything."
when "Load Scenario" is pressed, load from JSON into database
warn that this will erase any scenario currently being played, so save first,
which would download a JSON file

scenario: Blank
The first item in the list is the default empty scenario.

scenario: Pen Factory
This is a complete, fully playable scenario,
although it could easily be extended.
no characters
maximums, which can be increased with upgrades
other upgrades increase efficiency,
but require upgrading maximums before they can be purchased
description of upgrades explains how to use them, i.e. manually
ink, barrel, lid

scenario: Other Factory
Maximize profits or products.
You have been contracted to produce as much as possible with the given resources.
The client is willing to provide better tools in exchange for some products.
What to build is completely customizable.
For example, automobiles of perhaps a new or sci-fi kind, such as walkers like on Hoth.
Or run a restaurant with sandwiches, pies or pizzas.
currency name: credits
While this is one of the more obvious ways to play the game,
the game is intended to allow for a wide variety of scenarios,
not just this type.

scenario: Bacon for Dinner
This is a complete, fully playable scenario,
although it could easily be extended.
pigs require pigs as source, 2 => 3.
if less than 2, then will have to earn money doing farm chores in
order to get enough to buy another pig.
requires minimum 2 pigs to win
so multiple sources will be required.
phone is an item, or at least an event
Mom is also included from the start

scenario: Breed Livestock
Offspring have event-based chances to inherit or get new traits.
Could also grow crops on the same farm.

scenario: Traditional RPG Campaign
For example, start in a town and later visit a woods or dungeon,
fighting enemies based on character stats.
While this is perhaps the most obvious way to play the game
for people who are acquainted with the D&D genre,
the game is intended to allow for a wide variety of scenarios,
not just this type.

scenario: Train Trip
Travel from Chennai to Dehradun.
limited money
during a strike and an election, so many things might go wrong
Possibly allow other forms of transportation for part of the trip: bus, plane, auto, taxi.
english, tamil, hindi - transliterated?
encounter with cross-dressers begging
buy food
train may break down or be full and have to change
navigate train station with coolies and boarding
sleep is a resource -- too low gives rolls disadvantage

scenario: Hunting
Bring back enough food to survive.
Cut down on deer population to limit the spread of Lyme disease.

scenario: River Crossing
The problem is clear, but you'll need to decide how to solve it.
Chop down trees to build a raft, or swim across (might want to practice first),
or build a bridge, or look for vines.

scenario: Empire
Attempt to take over the world, or at least a significant part of it.
Develop technology and build resources along the way, or simply start attacking.
This could also be in outer space, battling over planets and solar systems.

scenario: Governor
curry favor with politicians
get elected
Persuade congress to pass important laws that the people care about,
such as, More Dogs and Fewer Cats (or vice versa).
Try an inspiring slogan to gain popularity, such as: Change for a brighter future!
Set up by default for lighthearted play,
but this could be configured for serious, real-world political parties,
social and economic issues.

scenario: Dating with a Matchmaker
Romance is highly dependent on your personal morals,
so customize it based on that.
The default setup will aim for morals that most people should
find acceptable, at the risk of feeling too tame.

scenario: Hospital
For those who have watched medical drama tv shows, this should be straightforward.

scenario: Police Force
You run a crime unit.
Sadly, in the past few years, crime has been rampant.
Your goal is to weaken gangs and criminal organizations to
make the citizens of the city feel safe once again.

scenario: Escape from Prison
will need to do lots of stealth or persuasion checks to deal with guards

scenario: Matrix
You have always thought of yourself as an ordinary person leading an ordinary
life, but lately, there have been signs that the world is not what it seems to be.
In fact, it's almost as if the whole thing has been starting to glitch.
Which shouldn't be possible, right?

scenario: Time Travel
Or body switching.
Have a certain goal to fix, something that went wrong.

scenario: Race
Perhaps horse racing or a triathalon.
Track the distance of each competitor during the race to see who's ahead,
and make use of the elapsed time displayed by the game.

scenario: Furniture
Play a sofa whose goal is to get people to relax on its cushions.
Upgrades such as softer cushions encourage potential sitters.
Pet hair and spilled food are not something this sofa appreciates.
Relocation may make a difference,
whether that be to a different spot in the room, a different room,
or an entirely different building.
Also, there is competition, other furniture intent on getting people
to sit on them instead,
perhaps for some insidious purpose such as giving them a backache.
Maybe there's something that can be done to stop them.
People: old man, young husband, young wife, elementary schooler, baby, dog, cat

scenario: Babysitter
You've worked as a babysitter for years.
Today, an eccentric couple from the backwoods asked you
to take care of their 15 children for a week.
They warned, though, that children can be a handful -- you've gotta watch 'em.
Inspired by the works of Betty MacDonald.

scenario: Design House
Various room locations and items in those rooms.
Include plenty of visual details in descriptions.
Either work together, or build separate houses and see who
can win an award for the best design.
Operate on a budget or have access to unlimited resources.
This scenario is more open-ended than most,
focused on designing rather than working towards a goal.

scenario: History
revolutionary war of an actual country
such as the U.S. with George Washington

scenario: Honeycomb Raid
like Winnie-the-Pooh, or more like tribal adventure

