---- system setup ----

hosting possibilities:
Pythonanywhere should be able to host postgres and flask web app.
https://www.reddit.com/r/flask/comments/12beskr/free_hosting_sites_compatible_with_flask/
render.com is an alternative.

prompt each player to save to their PC occasionally
only if no one recently saved from that session
warn that loading will erase any scenario currently being played, so save first

limit upload file size
for example 10 Mb
at 90% warn to remove content to avoid going over limit

try selenium to test client side

communication can be done with an app such as discord
or simply a text file
log should just be manual via chat instead of automatic
even a successful attack requires interpretation

---- general gameplay ----

gain all instant could be more convenient than entering e.g. 9999 batches
maybe a button or 0 for number of batches, or "(A)ll"

first check if source item is carried,
then if on floor,
and finally, if in general storage
deduct whichever is found first
if say 5 are required, two are held and three are on floor,
then require the character to either pick up three or drop two

checkbox to mask items until gained or while none
replace all non-spaces with "*" or "?"
description "(hidden -- produce or find to reveal)"
conversation dialog via masked item sources
yes or no choice would consume a source

mask characters we haven't met yet
those not marked as maskable are the starting set
go to location to unmask all characters there

action could be an event, or whatever was the most recent item interacted
with for a particular character, even if the action is finished
username and character in the same row doesn't necessarily mean that character
is a player character
all ongoing progress actions have a swirling icon next to the action name

    character   location    action  player
    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
    Suzy        Home        Ink     mycoolusername
    George      Woods       travel  2kul4wrds
                            Pens    userwithoutchar
    Peter       Woods       wolf

show most recent result on event screen so anyone can view it

travel could take a resource such as food for each distance step
the character object would have this resource
or use an instant item to do this manually
that would make it easier to take 1 ticket or Rs.5 per x distance

in char config, specify group to travel together -- group_name string
strip spaces and case insensitive
or multi-select select box of others to travel with
can we store results of multi-selection in session?
checkbox "Group1 Together" to travel,
if group_name isn't empty and there are at least 2 members
only works if all in the list are at starting loc?
no, list who's included and missing next to checkbox

other than travel, don't need to show group because they'll all
be listed on the location screen

to travel from one location to another, selecting from a dropdown may
be a bit tedious
could have buttons instead to start travelling to a location
perhaps we could use those instead of a single start button
would still have a single stop button
only a single distance display as well
maybe display would include destination name: "Distance to Home: 3 of 10"
since button would simply show "Travelling."
other buttons would be greyed out if travelling.

would attributes be useful for locations?
for example, how dark a room is,
or deep water would require swimming or limit evasion
perhaps it would be better to simply mention such things in location description

base chances could be displayed in the form of 1 / 10000 ticks
or 3 / 5 chance to hit
also min and max result,
for example, 70% chance to do between 30 and 60 damage.

for example, an attribute could be the season
so an event based on the season would have a worse chance or lower average
distance if season is winter
winter would be explained in the attr description,
and the implementation would be an input box showing * 0.9

events should automatically select last character viewed?
seems better to have select box to select from all lists
wouldn't change selection if a particular box doesn't have it
could only show for three or more -- "Select all"
seems good as long as we can find an intuitive place to put it on the page

maybe event trigger chance should have a checkbox
to more clearly indicate that it automatically triggers
that would grey out the trigger chance and set to 0
then we could remove the comment on the config screen

if item play gets too cluttered we could make a recipe play screen
it wouldn't have the upper button actions such as pickup
that would be the only place where progress would be shown
some events could be related to production, including all
automatically triggered ones,
while 'shoot' would make more sense on item play instead

mouseover grid letters to show name of what is there

if a grid is defined then char must either be at same or adjacent pos
to pick up pile, use local item sources, or travel through door

no travel time progress between subdivisions,
but speed could make it so can move two at a time
compared to another character's one at a time

for locations, have speed as well as distance
characters would have travel speed for a particular location?
for example, a swimming speed and a walking speed
speed for a particular type of terrain, and a location would have a type of terrain
or we could manually change the character's speed when entering a new location

prompt before overwriting another action in progress
such as if a character is already doing something else

global stop button on overview screen

limit actions in progress to 10 concurrent per session?
or two per user?
but there might be several long-term actions in progress,
such as an animal born once an hour
limit elapsed time to 24 hours at least
after that, though, it doesn't have to be stopped -- it's just not counted for more

will it be difficult if several elapsed-time actions depend on each other?
pen requires lid requires plastic, and each is incremented regularly
when querying an item, first recursively query
all of its sources that are in progress
avoid recursion loops by maintaining a set of items to query
the set would need to be a local variable passed as a parameter

offline events can occur?
multiple would get a bit crazy if they are not handled automatically,
like, multiple event screens to work through when logging back in
probably not what we want
could stop progress if an event occurs
or maybe no offline progress
the idea of farming for something for hours, hoping for a certain chance,
is exciting but can also feel like being tied up

for four-way rolls maybe select the base score,
like maybe out of 100.
would that be 1d100, or subtract that value from adjusted stat value?

don't allow production if byproducts would exceed limit
or maybe allow but don't go past limit, and prefer no limit

---- scenarios ----

source scenarios from community
perhaps submit to github via enhancement requests
or reddit

scenario: Dungeon Crawl
stamina for physical actions
perception
randomly populate room with items to pick up
by running events
chance based on item rarity
or other attrs, for example, some items more likely in fire caves
and others more likely in ice
also randomly populate with monsters
allow only one of each type of item pile at a loc

scenario: Fission Plant
win condition is at least a certain amount of power
and no more than a certain amount of pollution
need a way to destroy items as well as gain them
set up an elapsed time decreasing production cycle: 2 waste -> 1 waste
events trigger during production of some recipes
use waste as a determining attr for increased
likelihood of bigger problem
chance could improve with upgrades

scenario: Lemonade Stand
no characters
maximums, which can be increased with upgrades
other upgrades increase efficiency,
but require upgrading maximums before they can be purchased
description of upgrades explains how to use them, i.e. manually
Maximize profits or products.
You have been contracted to produce as much as possible with the given resources.
The client is willing to provide better tools in exchange for some products.
What to build is completely customizable.
For example, automobiles of perhaps a new or sci-fi kind, such as walkers like on Hoth.
Or run a restaurant with sandwiches, pies or pizzas.
currency name: credits
While this is one of the more obvious ways to play the game,
the game is intended to allow for a wide variety of scenarios,
not just this type.
sales can increase in complexity, adding stores and store management
NPCs can work at stores
items of a single name are unique
so if we want multiple stores, make "store 1", "store 2"
could also divide money into "store 1 money" and "general money"
    and they could require each other to allow transfers

scenario: Furniture
People: old man, young husband, young wife, elementary schooler, baby, dog, cat

scenario: Breed Livestock
Offspring have event-based chances to inherit or get new traits.
Could also grow crops on the same farm.

scenario: Lumber Business
events to make progress on a tree
or if something goes wrong
can either chop manually (faster) or in background
    for example if str is 10 then hit on tree is from 8 to 10
    chance of success for incrementing
event chance may depend on stats (attributes) of characters or items involved
sell for profit
honeycomb raid like tribal adventure

---- less likely but could consider listing as unformed ideas ----

scenario: Live Long and Happy
insight from blue zones: things that help live long also make life worth living
diet and exercise
goals and belief
connect with others
maybe things from regrets book
how to play a game yet make talking about good health feel right?
maybe it could be more educational than fun
like, it may not be fun to eat veggies in a game but it could feel interesting
mention in description that it's more straight shooting;
consider giving it a try after playing one of the more intense scenarios
not recommended to try to be evil in this particular scenario,
as thinking leads to doing
put responsibility on player to judge how happy the character is
there are some problems:
- likely to feel like unsolicited advice
- how to make it playable
- might not be relatable to even people with slightly different health issues

scenario: Hunting
Bring back enough food to survive.
Cut down on deer population to limit the spread of Lyme disease.

scenario: Squirrel
gather nuts for the winter
or ant and grasshopper
or cheetah and rabbit

scenario: Hospital
For those who have watched medical drama tv shows, this should be straightforward.

scenario: Escape from Prison
will need to do lots of stealth or persuasion checks to deal with guards

scenario: History
revolutionary war of an actual country
such as the U.S. with George Washington

scenario: Matrix
You have always thought of yourself as an ordinary person leading an ordinary
life, but lately, there have been signs that the world is not what it seems to be.
In fact, it's almost as if the whole thing has been starting to glitch.
Which shouldn't be possible, right?
This seems interesting but not sure how to implement.
Might be hard to have so much unknown in this type of game.

scenario: Time Travel
Or body switching.
Have a certain goal to fix, something that went wrong.

scenario: Race
Perhaps horse racing or a triathalon.
Track the distance of each competitor during the race to see who's ahead.

scenario: Babysitter
You've worked as a babysitter for years.
Today, an eccentric couple from the backwoods asked you
to take care of their 15 children for a week.
They warned, though, that children can be a handful -- you've gotta watch 'em.
Inspired by the works of Betty MacDonald.

scenario: Crystal Gardeners
In the crystalline gardens of Xanthuria, ethereal beings are tasked with
cultivating the vibrant crystal flora that sustains their civilization.
balance the delicate energies of the garden
plants require light, heat, water, or vibrational rhythm
invasive crystal pests, erratic energy surges, cosmic disturbances
create potions, enchantments, and artifacts that aid in their caretaking duties
and unlock new areas of the garden
